
On space not on ISS

 Project MERCCURI 
 2012 2014
(Microbial Ecology Research Combining Citizen 
and University Researchers on the ISS)

Most Previous works 
Escherichia coli 1997 and 2002
Pseudomanas aeruginosa 2011 2013
for atibiotic resistance production

successfully launched April 18, 2014


Additionally, this experiment did not provide enough time
 to study the long-term adaptation of bacteria to the
 environment on board the ISS.
 
 
 
 
 https://peerj.com/articles/1842/#table-1
 Table 1:
Final growth (OD600) of all 48 strains as measured on Earth at
 the end of the experiment with a high-density measurement in a Tecan platereader.
 
 
 Researchers from University of California 
 had the idea to collect simple bacterias from different
 environments on Earth and compare their behaviour on normal
 environment with their behaviour on space.
 The starting problem was that until now the attention
 has been focused on the microbes that have potential
 pathogenic risk and nobody studied the ordinary bacteria on space .
The result was surprising. Of the 48 types of bacteria
 sent on ISS all of them had similar behaviour, with
 one exception. Bacillus safensis grew 60% better on ISS than on Earth.

To accomplish this task, it was made a nationwide
 campain to popularise  science, named Project MERCCURI
 (Microbial Ecology Research Combining Citizen 
and University Researchers on the ISS). 
The people had to collect microbes from public places
 like museums, sports events,  schools, pools and send
 them to researchers and the most interesting microbes
 were selected. The bacteria winners were sent to ISS.
 
 
 What they did After the selection, the researchers send
 samples with the winners on Dragon spacecraft, wich was 
 launched on April 18th 2014.
The result was that Bacillus safensis bacteria grew 60%
 better on the bord of ISS than on Earth. 
 The reason for this is still a mistery. 
Clues may be found on the genome sequencing of the bacteria,
 that was recently determined .
The lead author of the article Dr. David Coll said that:
 "Understanding how microbes behave in microgravity is critically 
 important for planning long-term manned spaceflight but also
 has the possibility of providing new insights into how these
 microbes behave in human constructed environments on Earth."
Also this study engaged the public in the world of 
science and research. The authors hopes that this article will
 be a start of inspiration for young and adults to get involved 
 more in science world.
